example/hello-world/README.md, before:

# Hello World

Note that `--googlebatch-bucket` is required as a bucket to put workflow cache assets under "cache" 
If it does not exist it will be created.

```bash
# This says "use the custom executor module named snakemake_executor_plugin_googlebatch"
$ snakemake --jobs 1 --executor googlebatch --googlebatch-bucket snakemake-cache-dinosaur --googlebatch-region us-central1 --googlebatch-project llnl-flux --default-storage-provider gs --storage-gs-project llnl-flux
```

```console
Building DAG of jobs...
Using shell: /bin/bash
Job stats:
job                         count    min threads    max threads
------------------------  -------  -------------  -------------
all                             1              1              1
multilingual_hello_world        2              1              1
total                           3              1              1

Select jobs to execute...

[Fri Jun 16 19:24:22 2023]
rule multilingual_hello_world:
    output: hola/world.txt
    jobid: 2
    reason: Missing output files: hola/world.txt
    wildcards: greeting=hola
    resources: tmpdir=/tmp

Job 2 has been submitted with flux jobid ƒcjn4t3R (log: .snakemake/flux_logs/multilingual_hello_world/greeting_hola.log).
[Fri Jun 16 19:24:32 2023]
Finished job 2.
1 of 3 steps (33%) done
Select jobs to execute...

[Fri Jun 16 19:24:32 2023]
rule multilingual_hello_world:
    output: hello/world.txt
    jobid: 1
    reason: Missing output files: hello/world.txt
    wildcards: greeting=hello
    resources: tmpdir=/tmp

Job 1 has been submitted with flux jobid ƒhAPLa79 (log: .snakemake/flux_logs/multilingual_hello_world/greeting_hello.log).
[Fri Jun 16 19:24:42 2023]
Finished job 1.
2 of 3 steps (67%) done
Select jobs to execute...

[Fri Jun 16 19:24:42 2023]
localrule all:
    input: hello/world.txt, hola/world.txt
    jobid: 0
    reason: Input files updated by another job: hello/world.txt, hola/world.txt
    resources: tmpdir=/tmp

[Fri Jun 16 19:24:42 2023]
Finished job 0.
3 of 3 steps (100%) done
Complete log: .snakemake/log/2023-06-16T192422.186675.snakemake.log
```

Commit message:

feat: add/googlebatch logging testing (#13)
This PR will add the following:

- an example script to show logs (not added to the executor per problems
with the API limit, described in
https://github.com/snakemake/snakemake-executor-plugin-googlebatch/issues/14
- ability for the true test in CI to take environment variables to
specify project /region (for easiest local running)
 - a missing NOTICE file required for HPCIC work

I'm working on an issue that describes the logging problem, and will be
sharing this with Google and will update here after. TBA.

Update: I don't see a solution that I like for logging. It either
requires enabling an extra service, or risking hitting an API limit. For
now we can easily see status updates in the UI and direct the interested
user to this script for dumping a log.

---------

Signed-off-by: vsoch <vsoch@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: vsoch <vsoch@users.noreply.github.com>

example/hello-world/README.md, after:

# Hello World

Here is an example specifying to use an s3 bucket. Batch doesn't have a shared filesystem, so we do need to specify this.
Note that Google Storage (gs) is also an option.

```bash
# This says "use the custom executor module named snakemake_executor_plugin_googlebatch"
$ snakemake --jobs 1 --executor googlebatch --googlebatch-region us-central1 --googlebatch-project llnl-flux --default-storage-provider s3 --default-storage-prefix s3://snakemake-testing-llnl
```

```console
Building DAG of jobs...
Using shell: /bin/bash
Job stats:
job                         count    min threads    max threads
------------------------  -------  -------------  -------------
all                             1              1              1
multilingual_hello_world        2              1              1
total                           3              1              1

Select jobs to execute...

[Fri Jun 16 19:24:22 2023]
rule multilingual_hello_world:
    output: hola/world.txt
    jobid: 2
    reason: Missing output files: hola/world.txt
    wildcards: greeting=hola
    resources: tmpdir=/tmp

Job 2 has been submitted with flux jobid ƒcjn4t3R (log: .snakemake/flux_logs/multilingual_hello_world/greeting_hola.log).
[Fri Jun 16 19:24:32 2023]
Finished job 2.
1 of 3 steps (33%) done
Select jobs to execute...

[Fri Jun 16 19:24:32 2023]
rule multilingual_hello_world:
    output: hello/world.txt
    jobid: 1
    reason: Missing output files: hello/world.txt
    wildcards: greeting=hello
    resources: tmpdir=/tmp

Job 1 has been submitted with flux jobid ƒhAPLa79 (log: .snakemake/flux_logs/multilingual_hello_world/greeting_hello.log).
[Fri Jun 16 19:24:42 2023]
Finished job 1.
2 of 3 steps (67%) done
Select jobs to execute...

[Fri Jun 16 19:24:42 2023]
localrule all:
    input: hello/world.txt, hola/world.txt
    jobid: 0
    reason: Input files updated by another job: hello/world.txt, hola/world.txt
    resources: tmpdir=/tmp

[Fri Jun 16 19:24:42 2023]
Finished job 0.
3 of 3 steps (100%) done
Complete log: .snakemake/log/2023-06-16T192422.186675.snakemake.log
```
